Code is easy. Distribution is hard.
Token doesn't necessarily mean product
market fit either. Air drops don't mean
retention. Yield doesn't necessarily
mean utility.
[Music]
Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we're joined by Arian Shaalon,
the head of research at CMT Digital, a
blockchain and web3 proprietary trading
and venture capital firm focused on
earlystage investments that accelerate
the adoption of blockchain technology.
In this conversation, we discussed
Arian's introduction into the blockchain
technology sector when he was in
college, the early years of CMT and how
the CMT digital subsidiary evolved in
the post Silk Road auctions, the stage
of projects that CMT digital likes to
invest in, the role that VC plays in
blockchain industries maturation, key
takeaways from the past eight years, and
so much more. Just a reminder, nothing
said on this podcast is a solicitation
to buy or sell any tokens and that the
guest or host might hold tokens
discussed in any given episode. You can
check out a full disclaimer at
www.neontoday.com.
If you enjoyed this episode, please rate
and review it on your favorite
podcasting platform and don't forget to
share it with friends and family. Every
rating, review, like, comment, and share
helps us reach more people and bring you
more of your favorite guests. I really
enjoyed this conversation with Arian,
and I hope you enjoy it, too. Hey
everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy
podcast. Today we're joined by Arian
Shikalian, the head of research and
investor at CMT Digital, a VC firm that
is investing in early stage blockchain
projects. Arian, how you doing today?
>> Hey Dylan, great to meet you, mate.
Thank you for having me on.
>> Absolutely. Um I think before we hit
record, I was mentioning how excited I
am to have someone from the VC realm
come back on the pod. It's been a couple
years since and I personally like having
conversations with VCs because VCs bring
a completely holistic and different
perspective to the industry in the
market than maybe someone building a DAP
or an engineer or even a crypto trader
or anything like that. So, with that
caveat and everything kind of like out
of the way, let's just take a step back
and I love to ask this first question as
we jump off into the pod. What's your
genesis story with crypto? When did you
first hear about Bitcoin, blockchain,
crypto, Ethereum? And if you're anything
like me or 90% of our guests, you just
kind of like looked past it and then you
had an aha moment later. So, what was
your aha moment? I first learned about
Bitcoin and crypto back in 2015 16 time
frame. It was uh I was working at
Accentra as a management consultant you
know business analyst over in London and
uh I was working with a number of
financial services firms and they were
doing change management so kind of you
know firewall upgrades on ATMs things
like that. So not particularly exciting
but my implementation partner on the
stakeholder side was a cryptography
Bitcoin fanatic got me into the space. I
started reading about Bitcoin. Uh one of
the first books I read was Blockchain
Revolution. Um and so when I went over
to America I came here to to study um I
started you know reading about the
technology. I wrote to Don Tabscott who
was the author of blockchain revolution
and Jenna Pilgrim I met through the
rowing community and they brought me on
as a intern in my freshman year and
that's how I kind of got introduced to
the space. This was around the ICO era
and so looking into kind of use cases of
blockchain technology that and at the
time I was studying economics and
mathematics and in mathematics uh the
part that I was specializing in was
cryptography and kind of distributed
systems and so I started thinking about
you know yes bitcoin is is one
application of of distributed computing
here but really where can I go from here
and that was really the rabbit hole for
me. started reading about mechanism
design for consensus mechanisms. That's
where I was writing on with the Barri
and then uh DeFi and how it could kind
of transform the traditional finance
landscape.
>> Very cool. Were you brought on to
Colombia to to be on the rowing team?
>> I was. Yeah, I was recruited.
>> Okay. I have a question. The Heart of
Champions, a film backed by the Winkl
Voss brothers. Have you seen it?
>> No. Is that to do with boats? Boys in
the boat?
>> Yes, it it has. It's a rowing movie and
it's completely out there and
ridiculous, but the Winklevoss twins
funded it because they themselves were
in the rowing community before they went
on to Facebook and and do what they did.
>> Right. Right. I I should definitely
check that out. I haven't checked it
out.
>> Yeah. Get ready to be angry from what
I've read from the rowing community.
>> Very cool. Let's like take a step back
then and uh share a little bit more
about how you ended up at Colombia. Was
this for postgraduate? Was it for
graduate school? Did you go there to
study computer science? What was kind of
like the draw uh to wanting to study
there in addition to being on the rowing
team?
>> Yeah, for me it was being in the city.
New York City is obviously, you know, a
great entry point to the United States.
And as someone coming in, I thought that
was a great place to spend my four years
undergrad. Um, so it was undergrad. I
knew that I wanted to study economics
and mathematics. I knew that that is
what I wanted kind of the core of my
studies to be around and Columbia did
offer a joint economics and mathematics
program which I found really compelling.
I also did find the core curriculum
quite compelling that was kind of this
more holistic well-rounded education in
the liberal arts and you know if if I
wasn't compelled to do it I probably
wouldn't have. So it was a good thing
that I chose Colombia. But being in in
New York, you know, back in 2017 after I
got back from the blockchain research
institute, um I helped co-ound the
blockchain club at Columbia. And in the
early days, it was useful being in the
city to be able to access all the events
that were happening downtown. And um
yeah, if it wasn't for the city, I'm not
sure if I would have had that same level
of early exposure.
>> And what was the general excitement
about the blockchain club at the time? I
would imagine since we're talking 2017
ICO era, there were probably a lot of
interested people. In 2022, I went to a
wide variety of universities across the
US to go talk about building careers in
web 3 and spoke with blockchain clubs in
the Midwest along the the the coast of
California. And there was a lot of
hunger and this was kind of like during
a bearish time. So, it was refreshing to
see students wanting to build in
blockchain and web 3 during the 2022
bare market. What were the vibes like
when when you started the blockchain
club and is the torch still being
carried today?
>> Yeah, well I mean the torch is very much
being carried today. The the folks over
at Lion Dow and and Blockchain Club of
Columbia have just been, you know,
moving the club forward in a way that I
couldn't have even envisioned at the
time. Um so one of the first meetings
that we had was in fall of 2017. So this
was right after that summer. Things were
kind of peak euphoria at the time. Um
there's there's only a few ma there's
only a few classrooms on campus that can
actually have capacity for a large
number of students at the kind of for a
club level. And so we booked out one of
the rooms in the math building on the
lower floor, one of the largest
classrooms. And there was like standing
room only. There were hundreds of people
who showed up for the first meeting. And
then we broke for winter and the 20,000
Bitcoin peak happened and then it
crashed and the first meeting back was
like crickets. it was like maybe 10
people and so yeah definitely the
attendance followed the price action in
the early days but you know seeing how
the group came together more and more
frequently afterwards and has obviously
carried on past individual cycles it
really thanks to the folks like Near and
you know Adrian and you know all the all
the folks that carried on the club uh
after its initial forming that we have
to thank. Have you been brought back on
as like a speaker for for events or
anything like that?
>> Yeah, I think it was lioned out event in
New York and I was on the past
president's panel. It was that was
awesome.
>> Yeah, that's that's awesome to come back
to your alma mater and kind of uh
espouse the ways of of working in this
industry. Do you recall during the time
if your professors were skeptical of the
technology? Were were they more focused
on like Bitcoin as an asset? Because a
lot of skepticism I've heard from
academia has been more tied to the price
action and its volatility and that kind
of overshadows the technology and the
innovation that it represents,
>> right? And I mean perhaps I was a little
bit too early to be able to feedback
because when I was studying there wasn't
a huge number of classes that were
available in in blockchain. A lot of
them were kind of geared towards the
business school. I actually I've
connected with with Siam uh from
Colombia since and he seems to be doing
some great work there in getting kind of
more cryptonative thought around the
topic. But you know, I think it's
something that people have started out
very very pragmatic in the academia kind
of realm and have become slowly more and
more pled on the topic. And so I think
we're a uh healthy medium where
obviously academic rigor with
distributed computing goes back decades
and is and a lot of the foundations is
still rooted in theory and so there's no
reason for that to change. It's just a
question of applications of of the
technology and and how that's covered
and I wouldn't be able to tell you.
>> I wonder if the pipeline and this is
probably a speculative question if the
pipeline has gotten a little bit more
solidified or become more amalgamated as
we've seen trifi institutions start to
build out their L2s. We see trifi
institutions start to create financial
instruments that are that are baked
around these digital assets. I just
wonder if like business schools are
starting to funnel more students into
the web 3 space because we are seeing
this kind of I don't know if it's the
right way of like a stamp of approval
from historical institutions but for
more for for lack of better words that's
essentially what we're seeing especially
in the past year or two with the Bitcoin
ETFs I'm not sure if you can even
provide an answer or have any insights
to that
>> part of me says yes just because of
visibility right and I think while
you're in further education I
accessibility or or perceived acceptance
of some technology is important as a
kind of predicate for getting involved.
But when looking at some of those ETFs
or instruments that are being created,
they're not necessarily leaning into the
full value of what blockchain technology
or cryptocurrency technology can
actually provide. It's it's all very
much enshrined within the existing
system and existing structures. And of
course that's a stepping stone, but it's
not really ushering people into, you
know, cryptonative applications. It's
it's more kind of the adoption life
cycle. Uh, which I think is equally
important, but ultimately a different
angle of attack. Yeah, I was actually
having this conversation last night with
somebody where, you know, maybe this
this time in this market cycle is
different because in previous market
cycles, we would see kind of Bitcoin
acrue all this value and then that would
leak out to altcoins to other web 3
verticals because profits were taken and
they were distributed into other
ecosystems. And maybe we don't
necessarily see that because as we've
seen in the past year kind of Bitcoin
rallied largely probably due to these
ETFs. Not financial advice. I could just
be pulling all of this out of thin air.
Um but this has been my speculation that
the Bitcoin price has appreciated
because we've seen a lot of Tradfy
institutions acquire Bitcoin. However,
it's been in this kind of traded
off or it's like stuck behind a moat
from the rest of the web 3 space. So
maybe this time is different because we
won't necessarily see these gains and
these profits be taken off the table and
distributed into NFTTS, L2s, what have
you. And so I wonder if maybe this time
is different because a lot of this value
is kind of like encumbered within a
Tradfi rapper.
>> Yeah, for sure. And I think that's part
of Bitcoin's story of finding product
market fit. I mean, Bitcoin's product as
being the ultimate kind of protection
against currency debasement, if that
product had found product market fit in
cycles past, we wouldn't have seen that
leakage to altcoins. And so, I think if
Bitcoin's kind of value capture and and
the lack of an altcoin cycle that we're
seeing this year is reflective of that,
then I think that would make sense. I
mean, institutions aren't going to take
profits and rotate into Malay NFTts, but
you know, individuals may. So, I think
that makes sense.
>> Yeah, institutions aren't here for the
culture yet. Um, so before we kind of
like get into what CMT Digital is doing,
I did just kind of want to touch really
quickly on your tenure at Blockchain
Research Institute. How did you get
connected with that team? What were you
working on? And then how did that kind
of like funnel you into being in the
space full-time? Well, I mean I I got
connected to the team. So, shout out
Jenna Pilgrim from Coin Fund. Uh her and
I became friends through the rowing
community. She was also a rower and I
expressed my interest in in the space
and she connected me with with Don
Tabscott and that's how I started
working at the institute. Um at the
beginning it was very much you know try
and absorb as much as you can you know
learn about ICOs and learn about EOS and
ICP and you know it was interesting and
that introduced me to so the first
research that I did with them was on how
mechanism design impacted uh a roll out
for for these projects and in the early
days there was obviously a lot of
experimentation on consensus mechanisms
and so the the research was basically
ally looking at, you know, 2,000 or so
different projects with different
consensus mechanisms and running
regression analysis on mechanism design.
So looking at, you know, for consensus
itself on a scale of 0 to one, how
decentralized is consensus? You know, is
is voting a black box or is it delegated
proof of stake? So all of these
different design choices that you can
make for consensus, we kind of laid out
and uh tried to find significance when
it came to long-term price performance
uh traction of the project. It's
interesting because the only thing we
found significance at was governance at
the 5% level. Um so if there was
governance inherent or you know present
then the token was likely to perform
better. uh a lot of the time the
governance wasn't actually implemented.
It was just kind of touted or marketed.
And I think that's that's interesting
cuz some things never change.
>> What happened then? Because I remember
in 2017 it was if you had your white
paper with your consensus model and TPS
kind of shilling that then that was the
killer kind of thing that would attract
people to coins. And today in 2025 we
rarely hear about consensus mechanism.
We rarely hear about TPS and the the
throughput of the network unless of
course you're talking about Salana. So
like where where did that go? Did we
just as an industry mature beyond this
kind of like single thing that was super
impressive about distributed networks or
is it just kind of swept under the rug
now and just a a minor part of what
people look at when they're looking to
build on these networks?
>> Yeah, I mean I do think it's a minor
part now. I I do think it's it is
obviously still a major part of the
decision when you're looking at kind of
what what environment to exist on. But
the reason I think it's become less of a
important consideration is because we
haven't really tested the upper bounds
of of these things because there hasn't
been application activity that's broad
enough to actually, you know, justify
one TPS over another. And I'd say that
that becomes more of an important
conversation when we do start reaching
those upper bounds. And kind of parts of
my thoughts around Ethereum's future
kind of lie in this kind of direction
specifically. Ethereum has all of these
applications building on top of it and
making use of its block space. To what
extent can it actually provide value to
those applications in the long run and
and it's not as a result of higher TPS
uh like offloading to someone like Monad
at least today. and and so it's a it's a
question of which comes first, the
environment that can support that high
throughput application or the high
throughput application which then
necessitates the environment.
>> I want to delve into that a little bit
um later as we kind of like jump into
general trends or kind of like general
blockchain conversation levels in 2025.
But let's first figure out how you got
connected with CMT digital. You're based
in Chicago. Is is the team based in
Chicago? Um, how did this relationship
form?
>> Yeah, so CMT Digital is based in
Chicago. I'll give you an intro to the
CMT Digital group a little bit more in
depth here. So, one of my roommates in
college was actually from Chicago. I
visited in like sophomore year for um LA
Palooa of all things. And for me
personally, New York was getting a bit
too much. I wanted to move to a city
that was a little bit more manageable.
So, I' I'd fallen in love with Chicago
since sophomore year. I knew that I
wanted to uh come out here. I was
looking at different opportunities
within the space and Chicago was was one
that I was actually gearing towards
specifically. So got connected to the
CMT team. Colleen was still here. So
Colleen Sullivan and I spoke and I met
Sam and um Charlie shortly thereafter on
our team. And I think it was just a very
good team fit. I I found the the people
here really curious, humble, and kind of
highly highly aware of the opportunity
at hand. And being able to explore that
in a way that is open to these radical
ideas in a way that's not necessarily
encumbered by traditional methods was
was really encouraging. And you know,
CMT has this history of being a really
nimble firm. It was established back in
97 as a proprietary trading firm. So it
came out of the electronic trading
markets opportunity. Origin originally
it was established in Frankfurt,
Germany. You know we still maintain
those trading activities globally today.
But as a trading firm I think its
history has always been rooted in
opportunistic engagement. And so in 2013
um during the Silk Road auction the team
here saw something unique. how is the US
Marshall Service selling Bitcoin in
2013? So, I think it was seeing that
unfold um thinking about the
ramifications and making proactive steps
of joining something like the blockchain
association which they did really early
and kind of becoming engaged in those
early policy discussions really set up
the team to engage in a way that would
have otherwise been pretty difficult. So
I'm curious then in 2013, is it just
like a small kind of portion of of CMT
that was set aside to kind of look at
this emerging asset class in this
emerging sector or was this from the top
down kind of a general consensus within
the the entity that blockchain and
crypto is something that we're going to
look into?
>> Well, that was it really. It was Gan and
Scott, the the founders of the firm. um
looking into it and seeing the
opportunity with Bitcoin and deciding
that it is going to be a big portion of
the firm's future. And so then that's
when CMT digital was actually
established. Initial investments were
made around 2015. The crypto trading
desk was spun up full-time in 2017 and
then uh they acquired the RAIA from the
SEC and launched the first venture fund
in 2018. So yeah, it was very much a
proactive from from the founders down
that yeah, this is something that we're
bullish on and we want to be part of
this broader market transformation.
>> So pardon my ignorance, is CMT Digital
um the the entire parent company or is
this kind of like uh a subsidiary of
CMT?
>> Yeah. So we're CMT Digital is a
subsidiary of the CMT group.
>> Perfect. Yeah. Because the if you go to
CMT.digital, digital. The tagline is
backing extraordinary founders building
on the frontier of blockchain
innovation. Hell of a title, hell of a
of a leadin. So, what is CMT digital
predominantly focused on today? And at
what stage of a project are you guys
looking for to invest into teams? Preed
seed is kind of my main focus.
Obviously, we look at series A, series B
as much as we can, but we're we're
targeting, you know, ownership early in
in these companies, and I think given
the
landscape and given how many different
funds there are, I think that
necessitates us to engage and become
convicted earlier and earlier or as
early as possible. that has I mean it's
important to note that I think since the
founding of the firm the the market has
gone through so many different cycles
and the types of businesses that we're
investing in are changing and so kind of
early early engagement
you know we were investing into the
picks and shovels things like Falcon X
things like kind of consensus some DYDX
some of the early kind of adopters but
obviously as that shifts as As the
market matures, I think it necessitates
investing in other areas. So, as
applications become more and more
viable, looking at the application stack
or if engagement with the trad industry
starts deepening, looking at
infrastructure tooling that could
support acceleration there. I think it's
it has to be a dynamic and proactive
engagement strategy or investment
strategy, uh, which isn't necessarily
the same all the time. I think for
anybody who's been in the space since
2015, 16,1 17, 18, there's probably a
lot of earned cynicism from just hearing
nonsense shield year after year and
promises made that were never kept. And
I remember 2017 ICO era, you had
decentralizing everything. We're going
to decentralize Uber, they raised $18
million. We're going to decentralize
Airbnb, they raised $12 million. and
these teams never delivered. And I think
like if you've been around for five,
six, seven plus years, you kind of get
grizzled and maybe you don't have the
same faith in a utopian future that this
technology can offer. But now in 2025,
it feels like for the first time that
blockchain and and distributed storage
or distributed systems can deliver
something unique. So are we finally
there? Are we finally at the precipice
where large promises can be made and
maybe they can even be kept? Are we at
the point in this technologies life
cycle where a decentralized application
can actually provide more value than its
centralized counterpart?
>> I think this is a really important
point. One of the things that I like to
emphasize is that and you're completely
right, decentralization has become a bit
of a meme, especially for those of us
who have been in this space for many,
many years.
I like to say that we like to invest in
decentralized systems with pragmatism or
decentralization with utility. So we
have a strong preference for protocols
where decentralization isn't just this
ideological target or this kind of
signal but more of a functional
necessity. Let me give you an example
like AI and and I know AI has become
incredibly you know it's it's filled
with all of these jargon points and and
mimemetic engagement but the point is
that the data used for training does
kind of exist in this distributed
fashion. So does the the the the compute
is also accessible in a distributed
fashion. If the data and the compute
both naturally exist in a distributed
fashion, if you could make it possible
for decentralized training to be as
performant as centralized training, then
it would position the data and the
compute access access much more
favorably than centralized access. You'd
be able to access the same level of
compute and data far cheaper purely as a
function of where that compute and that
data already sits. And so obviously so
much research has to go into that. Noose
research is doing great work with things
like dstroke but the the pragmatism is
is holding us back and getting involved
until we have a clear picture of how
that compute and data access problem is
going to play out. But I think for some
deep in applications rethinking how
infrastructure works just in the world I
think proximity to a viable
decentralized product is much much
closer and and that's when we start
thinking about things like telecom. You
know think about the capital expenditure
that had to go into building those early
telecom towers. If technology is moved
forward in a way where something like
helium can be as performant using
alternative infrastructure like these
hotspots, then that does start to become
viable. And so I think that's where
we're looking specifically. We're
looking for where decentralization comes
with an immediate utility unlock uh that
can look to kind of risk the incumbent's
business model. I'm wondering if because
we always talk about onboarding the
first billion users into blockchain
networks and people just don't care
about centralized entities that own
their data. We've seen all sorts of
credit agencies leak information. We've
seen major corporate conglomerates leak
our private information. I'm pretty sure
everybody today is used to getting scam
text messages and scam calls from some
of their data that was leaked onto a
blacklist as long ago as 10 years ago
now. I remember my first major hack was
the Equifax hack. We as a society still
just don't care about owning our own
data, maintaining, you know, this
ability to choose who we want to give
our data to. And I'm just wondering if
maybe I put on my speculation hat a
little bit. We could be at the precipice
for society starting to care about
something like this when we grasp how
significant an entity like ChatGpt
having access to all this data and being
able to leverage its own internal LLMs
and its own internal AI compute systems.
When we realize how powerful a
centralized entity like this can become,
do you think like this is like a Mr.
Robot moment that could scare society
into caring about decentralized
solutions and into owning our own data
and maybe even like sovereign in
identity solutions? Or are we still kind
of like far away from mainstream caring
about this stuff?
>> I mean, I I see two parts forward.
either
users gradually slowly start to care
about decentralization when they
experience a centralized failure for
themselves personally and obviously
that's going to be a slow linear
adoption cycle where you know
individuals are either the victims of a
hack or a data breach or data
exploitation and they just decide you
know enough is enough and I want to
evaluate alternatives and at which point
you know decentralized systems can
provide a viable alternative. Sure, I
see that as one approach. I I do think
that there is a
kind of structural shift that could
happen with AI if decentralization can
slot in to current systems. So for
example, if decentralization can
replicate centralized systems but
invisibly and impactfully like if if if
you can then solve real real problems as
a result of you having ownership of your
own data and that is such a broader
postmarket transformation reality
because you have so many different
industries than being able to
collaborate. I'm assuming that one of
the main benefits of owning your own
data is the the portability or the
composability that comes with it and for
that to happen you need to have you know
market transformation not just in one
vertical but broadly and so I think
that's as a result of you know
communities developers but also policy
makers and who knows what sort of
policies could come out of AI. I also
think one of the most important points
is the rails the the financial rails and
that's one of the most exciting things
about what's happening today in the
market. If you have a broad financial
rail shift from Tradfi stable coins to
DeFi stable coins, I think that changes
the adoption life cycle for other
decentralized systems because going back
to the point of you know why is this
decentralized for any decentralized
application? I think they need to answer
what benefit does the user get from this
being decentralized and is the user able
to access this decentralized
infrastructure. And a lot of the time
the benefit of decentralization is
around incentive coordination. For
incentive coordination you need a viable
scalable way of coordinating those
incentives which is in for lack of a
better words money. And so stable coins
being ubiquitous with Tradfi definitely
accelerates that in my opinion because
it it enlarges the pool of participants.
>> Yeah. So we actually just saw here in
the states the Genius Act get signed
into effect by uh President Trump. So
what is the significance that this has
on the industry? We won't see any kind
of like rubber meeting the road probably
until 2026 when these laws are are
enacted and come into effect. But what's
the significance of this moment? A lot
of people who are probably like OG
cipher punk Bitcoin dieards probably are
thinking this is a big bootlicking
opportunity where we have stable coins
representing the US dollar increasing
the heedgeimony of this fiat currency
being distributed across the world on a
brand new technology rails. You might
have a lot of cynicism from from OGs,
but stable coins are probably the killer
crypto use case and have been for the
past two, three, four years maybe even.
So, what's the significance from your
perspective of the United States finally
enacting some stable coin legislation
and having a pro-stable coin outlook now
um in the US and how does that emanate
to the rest of the world and to the work
that you do?
>> It's hugely impactful. Um, we've been
waiting for this sort of legislation as
an industry for many, many years. For
them to be signed or announced on the
same day, I think was pretty impactful
as well. There was a lot of euphoria
there. I think it comes down to what the
US's motivation is. And it's becoming
increasingly clear to me that a huge
benefit to the US is dollar hedgemony in
the sense that they do need to maintain
kind of the velocity of the US dollar.
And this is such a such a elegant way of
exponentially increasing the velocity of
the dollar or or giving an access to to
people who would want to trade in in US
dollars. But it's it's expanding it
outside of the jurisdiction of someone
like Swift, which is pretty interesting
considering that's never really happened
before. And it's happening at a time
when other countries are talking about
bricks and alternative currencies. And
so I think it makes sense from that sort
of policy perspective. And that's
perhaps why we're seeing this shift in
the outlook. I also do think it's
important for US tech supremacy. If if
if applications who come out of the US
are going to continue leading the way
forward, I think they need to do so in
under regulatory environments that are
favorable to them. And I think that was
just a swing back in in terms of policy
outlook under this administration. feel
free to if this is too policy, too
macro, or just outside of like the
general realm in which you have an
insight or opinion on this, but um when
we saw uh and not to get too political,
but when we saw Russia invade Ukraine,
the US responded by sanctioning Russia
and kicking them off Swift. In my
perspective, that was kind of doing
something that the world thought was
unthinkable. the US kicking off a
superpower off of the payments rails.
And so to me that was a point of no
return. And ultimately it seemed like
blockchain rails were going to win
because they were this permissionless
borderless network in which anybody can
transact on. So, was the result of
removing a superpower off of Swift, did
that kind of supercharge blockchain
enabled international payment rails? And
was it almost inevitable that we were
going to have pro-stablecoin policy in
the US? And again, if this is like out
of your wheelhouse, please feel free to
let me know and we can move on. It might
not have necessarily supercharged
blockchain payment rails specifically,
but I think it definitely reframed in a
way how the world thinks about financial
infrastructure. I mean the significance
is is really this is like what was it
the first G20 country that was pulled
off of the system and and Swift
obviously was seen as neutral plumbing
in the sense that it was financial
infrastructure that anyone has access
to. But at the same time, we saw China
moving towards more of a CBDC type
program and and uh CIPS integration and
and we saw sanctioned and non-permitted
nations being began exploring that kind
of Bitcoin mining as we saw in Iran and
USDT settlements. I don't think it
supercharged blockchain payments
equally. Um I think narrative and
legitimate legitimacywise
yes crypto saw a boost onchain FX saw an
increase in adoption. Stripe PayPal Visa
obviously started getting involved but
we haven't seen full-scale migrations of
global trade settlement to any sort of
blockchain yet. And um Russia has began
kind of engaging with China on
settlement in bricks as opposed to any
sort of blockchain space system. And so
I think things like liquidity,
regulation, and compliance are still
somewhat gating factors when it comes to
that broader transformation. It's just I
think it accelerated the perception of
the financial rails problem that
existed.
>> Cool. Let's uh let's come down from the
10,000 foot view a little bit and talk
about your day-to-day at CMT Digital. So
what's your specific role at CMT
Digital? What are you doing on your
day-to-day? who are you predominantly
interfacing with?
>> Yeah, so day-to-day looking at projects
that are building in the space, looking
at investing in them, diligencing them,
but also more broadly looking at thesis
formation, looking at kind of what is
changing in the landscape, how do we
expect potential changes to to to shake
up the the industry? Things like
restaking when they came out, looking at
kind of the future of Ethereum here
today, for example. those sort of
broader market questions are the ones
that I like to engage with early and
kind of build out a thesis on because I
do think it's important to have a
fundamental thesis when you're looking
at investing in some of these longer
time frame opportunities.
>> Yeah, I was just um commiserating with
my chiropractor today. He's an OG and
one of the the group chats we're in is
full of these folks who like to make
grandiose speculations but never like to
do post-mortems on the speculations that
didn't slap. So what's kind of the the
process for for you and your team to
look back on your thesis maybe from a
year ago, from three years ago, from 5
years ago, and what's the process of
iterating on top of the things you got
right, but as well as identifying and
and fixing the things in which you got
wrong?
>> Yeah. So I mean, we have annual offsets
specifically for this and we'll we
actually just had one. So fresh I'm
coming to you fresh. Um, we basically
look at the thesis that we had in the
past and and investments that we made
with specific thesis and evaluate kind
of what we think went right, what we
think went wrong, how that affects our
outlook on the future of this specific
thesis. But I also think it's important
to talk to other folks that are really
boots on the ground. I think there's a
lot of different um, obviously different
investment firms, but also researchers
at other protocols. And I feel like
researchers have a bit of camaraderie
between us and and things like you know
the ox research uh group from block
works. Researchers tend to coalesce
around these kind of rabbit holes and
and find each other. And so the research
and community I think is one of the most
the ones that I value most in the space
just because they are always in the
weeds and they are always looking at
these uh topics. I think a thesis that's
really kind of interesting to look back
on is within DeFi. For example, last
year, uh, Matt and I from our team were
looking at composability and and looking
at modularity within DeFi building
blocks. Things like Oiler and Maple
became kind of core positions, liquid
positions for us as a result of that
research of what's going to give them
the edge over incumbents. Well, it's the
ability to plug into one aspect of it in
a modular way and composability with
existing infrastructure and we kind of
wrote a whole piece on it. It is
actually starting to play out which is
hugely encouraging. Um that obviously
never is not necessarily always how it
happens. Some of the thesis that we have
are far too early. Some of them are just
not going to pan out the way that we
envision. And so I I think it's
important to have a thesis but also not
be hyper rigid on this is the only way
that things are going to go. It's about
monitoring how that thesis is developing
and uh reframing it if necessary.
>> I love seeing Maple's success today. We
had Sid on the pod in maybe 2022, very
early 2023. And it's really cool to kind
of see how their RWA thesis uh was
indeed correct and how it's playing out.
and it's just super cool to see projects
survive and thrive um years after we've
had conversations with them. Um I want
to lean into kind of a question about
the role of VCs in the industry. But
before we do that, maybe uh as a
launchpad or or diving board into that
question, maybe we can just talk a
little bit about how CMT Digital
structures its deals or forms its
relationships a little bit different
than your competitors. Yeah, I mean we
like to engage. What we like to say to
founders, we like to engage in any way
that you kind of see best. Now, there
are certain areas where we feel like our
support can be more impactful than
others. We can look to engage on kind of
the trading side, looking at whether the
token model makes sense to us, whether
the trading strategy, the token strategy
makes sense. I personally like engaging
with the mechanism design piece whether
it's protocol mechanism design whether
it's a order matching engine um whether
it's you know oracle robustness whatever
it may be that's kind of where I like
engaging with the founders super super
early um just because I think there's so
many different design choices you make
at the beginning of a project and a lot
of the time especially within blockchain
systems you have to be very careful
about those those design decisions
because they're not immediately
completely reversible. And so something
like deepin where the token emissions
are really an initial bootstrapping
mechanism for the hardware and for the
infrastructure I think it's super
important to make sure that you have the
balance of what you're willing to pay
for that hardware on boarding in mind
because that's going to be your
emissions for the at least next few
years for the project. And if that's too
extractive, well then that leaves you
with a situation that's not ideal when
it comes to the, you know, incentive
alignment in the long run. With deepen
projects specifically, you know,
incentive alignment is paramount when it
comes to sustainability. So yeah, I I
think leave it up to the founder, but
engage where you think you can be most
impactful. I think you're kind of
leaning into one of my arguments for why
VC is such a valuable part of the
blockchain and web 3 space in general is
the inherent knowledge and connections
that you're able to help bring to a
team. Um, especially like an early stage
project that's trying to formulate all
of this. But if you go on to crypto
Twitter and you see a lot of anons,
there's a lot of hate towards VCs. Maybe
one of the reasons uh probably the
biggest reason is this perception of
access to uh early token allocations,
pre-sale deals. And to many it can be
seen as a lot of these deals are being
made behind closed doors and that once
the token hits the public market, the
VCs are all going to collude and dump on
us. And so that's kind of where this
negative sentiment for the VC space in
general from my perspective um as a
neutral observer uh really does play
out. So what is like the role that VC
plays in to in in blockchain's
development today in DAP development
today and architecture today and if you
could identify some of the negative
perceptions what are the ways in which
they might be airing towards a little
bit of truth and what are the ways in
which outsiders might just have it
completely wrong
>> I think it's also I mean first we should
preface by saying that not every fund is
going to look structurally the game.
They're going to have different LPs.
They're going to have different
mandates, different ways of seeing the
world and different timelines to
realization. I think this is really
important because so for example, we
have a pretty long timeline, something
like 7 years for uh our fund. And when
we look at engaging with projects, it's
not necessarily on an immediate kind of
early liquidity basis. We're looking at
kind of like a traditional exit in the
sense that why would we be able to get
out of this position in a favorable
environment. You know, are they going to
be able to find product market fit at
the time where we vest? And I think
those sort of questions are more
important than when do we get access to
liquidity? Because if you get access to
liquidity and there's no one there on
the other side, well then that doesn't
really make sense. And ideally, you want
protocol participants, whether they're
on the supply or the demand side, to be
on that receiving end. And part of the
problem is the the project's liquidity
cycles have been based around
speculation and not adoption. And I
think that's where the imbalance between
the retail and the venture kind of
markets can come in because retail is
supposed to be adoption, but if retail
is just farming, that's not real
adoption. And so the token model won't
really make sense. So I think it's about
timelines to realization, kind of
original pieces for engagement and
timelines to realization from a fund
level, but also looking at kind of what
sort of environment will this token be
launching into? Um, is it going to have
product market fit yet? Will it make
sense for the broader community?
>> Do you think we're seeing adoption
actually start to play out? I think for
like Salana
meme coins was adoption. You had to have
soul in order to launch these meme
coins. And is that the
utopian future we were promised in these
white papers that people were going to
be trading shitcoins? No. But that was
adoption. So, are we starting to see
like real meaningful adoption start to
take place? And it doesn't necessarily
need to be like world changing. But I I
do want to hear if like the the ticker
is moving into the right direction
moving into the right direction. I think
the memecoin cycle is really just as a
result of the same product market fit
that crypto found back in 2021, which
was speculation. DeFi, NFTTS, memecoins
are all kind of going back to that same
product of speculation. Now, I do think
that we're seeing adoption when it comes
to nonspeculative use cases, but the
adoption curve is much slower. The
adoption curve with speculation is
fueled by this feedback loop of outsiz
returns drawing more people in and so on
and so forth. But the adoption cycle
when we're looking at real world
transformation, I think is different.
And I do think some deep ends like
Helium are starting to reach that
adoption. I mean, being able to offload,
I think is adoption. Whether or not
that's the same level of adoption as
speculation, probably not. But I have
more faith in it being longerlasting
than speculation. Now speculation will
always be there and may always be the
the primary product market fit for
crypto projects but ultimately I think
the incentive alignment or the the power
of adoption within incentive alignment
is is far more re broadreaching. Um it's
just it's just harder to get adoption
there. It it takes longer and it's not
as a not as much of a hockey stick
growth pattern. But I do think that
that's where the sustainability comes
from. for almost the entire time I've
been in the space. I got in in 2017 and
Ethereum to me always sounded nice on
paper, you know, uh a programmable
money, you know, smart contract
functionality. And we saw, as you were
just mentioning over the cycles, we've
had this these speculative uh sort of
bull cycles with NFTTS, with meme
coinery, even with uh Foodcoin Summer
and DeFi summer. And it wasn't until
this year when for the first time ever,
a realworld use case for the value that
Ethereum as a network and maybe even ETH
as an asset started to play out. And
that was largely when Bitcoin or when
Black Rockck launched its B fund. And we
started to see these Tradfi institutions
tokenize their assets. And now these
assets are starting to live on Ethereum
amongst other networks. But as we also
start to talk about L2s and settling
onto Ethereum, maybe as a data
availability
layer, um we're gonna possibly see the
ship turning around of the L2s being a
vampiric effect on Ethereum and the ETH
asset itself. And as we have something
like based rollups start to take effect
where arbitum base maybe even future
Fidelity chain JP Morgan chain they have
their own L2s but they settle on and
they leverage Ethereum as the security
network. Are we moving to a place where
Ethereum as a blockchain network as an
L1 can start to provide a a real world
use case for L2s can really start to
drive actual activity that's a necessity
and maybe even remove some of the
speculation from ETH as an asset and are
we entering a phase where ETH can have
utility and maybe even just maybe
because of market demands we can see uh
supply demand cycles is pushing the
price of ETH as an asset up because the
market demands it for utility.
>> Yeah, I think that's absolutely right,
Dylan. I think ETH as an asset is
changing fundamentally. So, I've wrote
an op-ed on this actually, which should
be going out in the next few weeks here.
But in a way, Ethereum's already kind of
won. It's become the de facto platform
for asset issuance and onchain Binance
and smart contract development. I mean,
EVM is still Solidity is still in the
lead there. Now, is it is it the best?
You know, probably not, but it's it's
got that market traction. It's it's got
that adoption. It's got that buy in. It
is heading towards a strange paradox in
the sense that Ethereum is going to be
everywhere, but it might not be the
thing that anyone's excited about at any
given point. And depending on your
perspective, that's either its
superpower or its biggest weakness. So I
think yes, Ethereum is moving towards
being a full just DA layer and I don't
think that the road map is particularly
shy about this either. I mean, the goal
from what I can gather is to strip down
the base layer to its bare essentials of
things like finality, settlement, and
data availability. And then the L2s,
whether they're base rollups or whether
they're optimistic roll-ups, hopefully
not, whether they're ZK roll-ups,
execution, state, uh, data,
computation, everything is offloaded to
these layer 2. And so the enabling
technology I think is really lying in
zero knowledge rollups. Um I think we're
seeing the Ethereum foundation start to
prepare for this as well. I mean the
risk five framework that came out of so
risk re framework that came out of
Vitalik's proposal I think is indicative
of that um kind of an environment where
the base L1 is just proving. But I think
the the this environment positions ETH
as an asset in an interesting way
because things start to look less
certain for ETH as an asset. Post EIP
4844 and and blob space being
introduced. We had this introduction of
a separate lane of bandwidth dedicated
for rollup data and they obviously made
gas fees lower both for the user and for
the roll-ups. But it it changes
Ethereum's demand drivers I think pretty
fundamentally. Blobspace has now created
this new hard to price asset and the
demand curves are pretty nent and
unpredictable and so ether as an asset
has started to change where before it
used to capture I mean it still captures
a lot of fees through EIP 1559 and gas
fees but demand for transaction
execution and blobsp space but the
demand for blobsp space is going to have
far less of an impact on the demand for
ETH than demand for L1 execution
directly. I mean, gas gas gas gas gas
fees were pretty high, right, on the L1.
And so, ETH as an asset needs to change.
Does ETH look like a low volatility bond
in the future with staking rewards? Are
we going to price it off of the future
staking rewards? Does it behave like AWS
bandwidth where you want access to the
bandwidth to be able to post onto L1?
Does it even remain the centerpiece of
Ethereum's economy? And I think these
are the questions that ETH needs to
answer um in the sense that how do they
want the users to engage with ETH? What
is ETH going to be representative of and
what can ETH L1DA provide that others
can't? What's kind of the feedback loop
that keeps users coming back to ETH L1
DA as opposed to something like
Celestia? I do think there's something
there whether it's state reconstruction
from the L1 uh for interoperability
across different L2 environments where
you have kind of a global state across
all L2s. I don't know what it may be but
I think there's something there to allow
ETH DA to kind of pull forward.
>> Yeah, that's kind of the thesis that I
choose to be bullish on something
similar to that. And as you brought up,
EVM is kind of king right now and
Solidity is king. So, ETH has Ethereum
has this opportunity to kind of leverage
all these side networks that are
building on top of EVM and it can really
act as kind of the unifying factor for
them. But in 2021, I had this kind of
modular versus monolithic argument
internally and it feels like it's
starting to reemerge in 2025,
particularly as we saw a lot of success
with Salana from gaining new developers,
from gaining traction on new projects,
from seeing projects leave other
ecosystems and choosing to build on
Salana. So we really now have once again
this kind of emerging debate. Is it
going to be a monolithic network that
sort of takes off and and takes all or
are we really going to see this value in
modularity really start to take off? And
in from my perspective, it can go either
way. We can have these Tradfi guys
building EVM L2s or we can have these
kind of like large scale corporate
entities choosing to build within a a
monolithic Salana like entity blockchain
network. So what's where do you view
today in 2025 this debate between
modular and monolithic? Is it even a
thing?
>> Well, I think in infrastructure design
it is a thing but only in the sense that
modular systems give you more
composability. So yes Salana is largely
a monolithic structure but even Salana I
see moving towards more modular type
systems. So earlier we saw network
extensions coming out of Salana and and
I would consider BAM like a bit of a
continuation of that. I don't know if
you're familiar with BAM the things that
came up pretty recently. It was a GTO
live stream where they were talking
about uh BAM essentially BAM is new to
Salana. Um but it's it's it's kind of in
that same direction as network
extensions
you know Salana's version of layer twos
in a way. Um, but I think that if
institutions are getting involved with
blockchains to the extent that they go
with a monolithic system, if they want
any sort of composability with their own
existing systems without having to
integrate everything or with their with
other potential systems that could
exist, they're going to need some
modular infrastructure piece to make
those two systems composable. And I just
don't think that you have that same
level of extensibility in fully
monolithic systems. Now, does that
distinction even exist anymore is a good
question. I'm not sure, but I do think
that institutions will always have to
lean on these modular infrastructure
pieces to fully achieve the goals of
what they're trying to achieve.
>> Zooming out, wrapping up, uh, final
question. I I understand this might kind
of like be a big I don't want to say
curveball but but this is this is a big
question. So looking back on your your
experiences as a researcher from 2017
and drawing from all the promises that
have been made each cycle and just like
earning the cynicism for seeing what has
worked and what has failed. I honestly
feel like 95% of these dreams that were
sold to us have failed and maybe 5% have
stuck. Drawing on this experience and
and still being here eight plus years,
how how do we take the lessons we've
learned since 2017 and apply them to
maybe some heruristics for our five-year
roadmap? and can you use these lessons
learned to maybe create a five-year
vision for where you think we're going
to be as a blockchain industry in that
time frame? And I know that's a big
heady question, but I feel like as a
researcher, you're going to bring some
some fire. You know, every every cycle
we were sold a dream. what 2013 Bitcoin
is daily money uh going all the way to
you know 24 agents AI agents but I don't
think that they failed because they were
wrong um but rather that they were
premature or misaligned at the time and
so I think one of the biggest takeaways
for me personally has been number one
tech alone is never enough you know what
we can do on a technical basis and the
market transformation that we can
theoretically bring about bring about as
a result of technical innovation is not
everything we can't rely on the tech
alone code is easy distribution is hard
generally and so I think it's important
to always think back to that I mean
there are so many different examples
that we can lean on if we look at the
bridge wars for example like did tech
win or did the distribution win I think
the second piece is token doesn't
necessarily mean product market fit
either. You know, airdrops don't mean
red retention. Yield doesn't necessarily
mean utility. And so I think real usage
or real PMF in crypto still should look
like organic usage with aligned
incentives. You know, stable coins in
emerging markets, for example. Sure.
Speculative markets um to the extent
that people want to speculate. Yeah, I
think being able to to to lean on
product market fit outside of tokens um
cycles I think also kill nuance like a
dream is sold to us. people get behind
this idea and they get behind it so much
so quickly in such a short period of
time but the narrative gets overfit with
short-term speculation and I think that
can kill the adoption life cycle that
you know the best builders often do go
through which is you know quiet during
hype and uh reemerge with a product that
is just superior to any other if I'm
thinking about a 5-year road map or plan
invest in things that make sense in a
distributed fashion without a token
first and a token could really
accelerate the adoption. Tokens should
enhance not you know justify the
product. Um bet on products that can
survive a you know US ban or a you know
regulatory blowback. Um, while we might
be in a favorable environment now, that
may not always be the case. And so
censorship resistance, I think, is
important to not lose in the context of
being compliant and and approved from a
regulatory perspective. I do think that
things like ZK compute do need to go
through some level of acceleration for
viability and and some level of adoption
will rely on you know our ability to
accelerate the viability of these
technical pieces but I think that's just
a function of time but I mean in short
to try and answer your question instead
of us promising another 10x without the
learnings of the last decade I think the
grounded vision
for crypto should be it's not just
financial infrastructure but it's
digital public infrastructure something
that's credibly neutral globally
accessible and resilient to collapse and
only on those sort of premises can you
actually go through the Darwin cycles of
applications dying and living and being
able to survive in the long run because
unless you have credibly neutral kind of
globally accessible infrastructure to
build it on it's not going to be a
reality
Um that's why I do think modular systems
work well modular block space you know
price like AWS bandwidth makes sense cuz
it's about what are the building blocks
of that future going to look like you
know that's where a lot of the things
like decentralized provenence identity
for the login layer like we don't know
what it's going to look like but we can
take a guess looking at that future
vision of what should that global public
accessible infrastructure look like
>> fantastic conclusion Arian If anybody
listened to this and is excited to reach
out to you or to CMT Digital, what's the
best way they can contact you or reach
out to the team?
>> Yeah, you can just ping me on Telegram.
I'm Persian Pariah. Uh I'm an immigrant
from Iran originally, that's why.
>> Awesome. Well, Arian, thank you so much
for your time today. Um I had a blast.
Thanks for for talking everything macro
and policy and getting into the weeds of
uh outlooks for for networks and
architecture themselves. I really
appreciate the time you spent with us.
>> Thank you, Dylan. Likewise. Cheers.
Cheers.
>> Thank you so much for tuning in to the
Smart Economy podcast. To stay in the
loop with all of our latest episodes and
insights, head over to
www.smarteconomyodcast.com.
And don't forget to subscribe to our
YouTube channel for all of our video
content. If you enjoyed today's
discussion, please consider showing your
support by liking, commenting, and
reviewing this episode on your favorite
podcasting platform. Your feedback helps
us reach more listeners and bring even
better content your way. We'd also love
to hear from you. So, drop a comment on
Spotify or YouTube to share what topics
you'd like to cover us. We'd also love
to hear from you. So, please drop a
comment on Spotify or YouTube to share
what topics you'd like us to cover or
who you'd like to see as our next guest.
And if you or someone you know would
make for a great guest, don't hesitate
to reach out. We're always looking for
fresh voices and new perspectives. And
for our NEO token holders out there,
please consider voting for NEO news
today as your council representative.
We've proudly been serving the NEO
ecosystem since 2017, and we'll continue
to do so by putting portions of our
council rewards directly back into
ecosystem growth initiatives. So, with
all of that said, thank you once again
for listening to the Smart Economy
podcast, and we look forward to catching
you next time.